docs/source/README.rst, before:


urlfix: Check and Fix Outdated URLs
===================================


.. image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/urlfix.svg
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/urlfix/
   :alt: PyPI version fury.io


.. image:: https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.4515212.svg
   :target: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4515212
   :alt: DOI


.. image:: http://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/active.svg
   :target: http://www.repostatus.org/#active
   :alt: Project Status
 

.. image:: https://codecov.io/gh/Nelson-Gon/urlfix/branch/master/graph/badge.svg
   :target: https://codecov.io/gh/Nelson-Gon/urlfix?branch=master
   :alt: Codecov


.. image:: https://github.com/Nelson-Gon/urlfix/workflows/Test-Package/badge.svg
   :target: https://github.com/Nelson-Gon/urlfix/workflows/Test-Package/badge.svg
   :alt: Test-Package


.. image:: https://travis-ci.com/Nelson-Gon/urlfix.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.com/Nelson-Gon/urlfix.svg?branch=master
   :alt: Travis Build


.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/urlfix.svg
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/urlfix/
   :alt: PyPI license


.. image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/urlfix/badge/?version=latest
   :target: https://urlfix.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest
   :alt: Documentation Status


.. image:: https://pepy.tech/badge/urlfix
   :target: https://pepy.tech/project/urlfix
   :alt: Total Downloads


.. image:: https://pepy.tech/badge/urlfix/month
   :target: https://pepy.tech/project/urlfix
   :alt: Monthly Downloads


.. image:: https://pepy.tech/badge/urlfix/week
   :target: https://pepy.tech/project/urlfix
   :alt: Weekly Downloads


.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Maintained%3F-yes-green.svg
   :target: https://GitHub.com/Nelson-Gon/urlfix/graphs/commit-activity
   :alt: Maintenance


.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/Nelson-Gon/urlfix.svg
   :target: https://github.com/Nelson-Gon/urlfix/commits/master
   :alt: GitHub last commit


.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/Nelson-Gon/urlfix.svg
   :target: https://GitHub.com/Nelson-Gon/urlfix/issues/
   :alt: GitHub issues


.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/issues-closed/Nelson-Gon/urlfix.svg
   :target: https://GitHub.com/Nelson-Gon/urlfix/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed
   :alt: GitHub issues-closed


``urlfix`` aims to find all outdated URLs in a given file and fix them. 

**Supported file formats**

``urlfix`` fixes URLs given a file of the following types:


* [x] MarkDown (.md)
* 
  [x] Plain Text files (.txt)

* 
  [ ] ReStructured Text (.rst)

* 
  [ ] PDF (.pdf)

* 
  [ ] Word (.docx)

* 
  [ ] ODF (.odf)

**Features List**


* 
  [x] Commandline and programmer-friendly modes. 

* 
  [x] Replace outdated URLs/links in a single file

* 
  [x] Replace outdated URLs/links in a directory

* 
  [x] Replace outdated URLs/links in the same file or in the same files in a directory i.e inplace.

* 
  [ ] Replace files in nested directories

**Installation**

The simplest way to install the latest release is as follows:

.. code-block:: shell

   pip install urlfix

To install the development version:

Open the Terminal/CMD/Git bash/shell and enter

.. code-block:: shell


   pip install git+https://github.com/Nelson-Gon/urlfix.git

   # or for the less stable dev version
   pip install git+https://github.com/Nelson-Gon/urlfix.git@dev

Otherwise:

.. code-block:: shell

   # clone the repo
   git clone git@github.com:Nelson-Gon/urlfix.git
   cd urlfix
   python3 setup.py install

**Sample usage**

**Script Mode**

To use at the commandline, please use:

.. code-block:: shell


   python main.py --mode "f" --verbose 1 --inplace 1 --input-file "myfile.md"

To get help:

.. code-block:: shell

   python main.py -h 
   #
   #usage: main.py [-h] -m MODE -in INPUT_FILE [-o OUTPUT_FILE] -v VERBOSE -i INPLACE
   #
   #optional arguments:
   #  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
   #  -m MODE, --mode MODE  Mode to use. One of f for file or d for directory
   #  -in INPUT_FILE, --input-file INPUT_FILE
   #                        Input file for which link updates are required.
   #  -o OUTPUT_FILE, --output-file OUTPUT_FILE
   #                        Output file to write to. Optional, only necessary if not replacing inplace
   #  -v VERBOSE, --verbose VERBOSE
   #                        Boolean to control verbosity. Defaults to True.
   #  -i INPLACE, --inplace INPLACE
   #                        Should links be replaced inplace? This should be safe but to be sure, test with an 
   #                        output file first.

**Programmer-Friendly Mode**

.. code-block:: python


   from urlfix.urlfix import URLFix
   from urlfix.dirurlfix import DirURLFix

**Create an object of class URLFix**

.. code-block:: python


   urlfix_object = URLFix("testfiles/testurls.txt", output_file="replacement.txt")

**Replacing URLs**

After creating our object, we can replace outdated URLs as follows:

.. code-block:: python


   urlfix_object.replace_urls(verbose=1)

The above uses default arguments and will not replace a file inplace. This is a safety mechanism to ensure one does not
damage their files. 

Since we set ``verbose`` to ``True``\ , we get the following output:

.. code-block:: shell

   urlfix_object.replace_urls()
   Found https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/manymodelr in testurls.txt, now validating.. 
   Found https://cran.r-project.org/package=manymodelr in testurls.txt, now validating.. 
   https://cran.r-project.org/package=manymodelr replaced with https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/manymodelr/index.html 
   in replacement.txt
   Found https://tidyverse.org/lifecycle/#maturing in testurls.txt, now validating.. 
   https://tidyverse.org/lifecycle/#maturing replaced with https://lifecycle.r-lib.org/articles/stages.html in 
   replacement.txt
   2 URLs have changed of the 3 links found in testurls.txt
   2

To replace silently, simply set verbose to ``False`` (which is the default). 

.. code-block:: python

   urlfix_object.replace_urls()
   2 URLs have changed of the 3 links found in testurls.txt
   2

If there are URLs known to be valid, pass these to the ``correct_urls`` argument to save some time.

.. code-block:: python


   urlfix_object.replace_urls(correct_urls=[urls_here]) # Use a Sequence eg tuple, list, etc

**Replacing several files in a directory**

To replace several files in a directory, we can use ``DirURLFix`` as follows.


* Instantiate an object of class ``DirURLFix``

.. code-block:: python


   replace_in_dir = DirURLFix("path_to_dir")


* Call ``replace_urls``

.. code-block:: python


   replace_in_dir.replace_urls()

----

To report any issues, suggestions or improvement, please do so at `issues <https://github.com/Nelson-Gon/urlfix/issues>`_. 

If you would like to cite this work, please use:

Nelson Gonzabato (2021) urlfix: Check and Fix Outdated URLs https://github.com/Nelson-Gon/urlfix

**Thank you very much**. 

..

   “Before software can be reusable it first has to be usable.” – Ralph Johnson

Commit message:

Fix issues with boolean arguments

docs/source/README.rst, after:


urlfix: Check and Fix Outdated URLs
===================================


.. image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/urlfix.svg
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/urlfix/
   :alt: PyPI version fury.io


.. image:: https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.4515212.svg
   :target: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4515212
   :alt: DOI


.. image:: http://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/active.svg
   :target: http://www.repostatus.org/#active
   :alt: Project Status
 

.. image:: https://codecov.io/gh/Nelson-Gon/urlfix/branch/master/graph/badge.svg
   :target: https://codecov.io/gh/Nelson-Gon/urlfix?branch=master
   :alt: Codecov


.. image:: https://github.com/Nelson-Gon/urlfix/workflows/Test-Package/badge.svg
   :target: https://github.com/Nelson-Gon/urlfix/workflows/Test-Package/badge.svg
   :alt: Test-Package


.. image:: https://travis-ci.com/Nelson-Gon/urlfix.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.com/Nelson-Gon/urlfix.svg?branch=master
   :alt: Travis Build


.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/urlfix.svg
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/urlfix/
   :alt: PyPI license


.. image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/urlfix/badge/?version=latest
   :target: https://urlfix.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest
   :alt: Documentation Status


.. image:: https://pepy.tech/badge/urlfix
   :target: https://pepy.tech/project/urlfix
   :alt: Total Downloads


.. image:: https://pepy.tech/badge/urlfix/month
   :target: https://pepy.tech/project/urlfix
   :alt: Monthly Downloads


.. image:: https://pepy.tech/badge/urlfix/week
   :target: https://pepy.tech/project/urlfix
   :alt: Weekly Downloads


.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Maintained%3F-yes-green.svg
   :target: https://GitHub.com/Nelson-Gon/urlfix/graphs/commit-activity
   :alt: Maintenance


.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/Nelson-Gon/urlfix.svg
   :target: https://github.com/Nelson-Gon/urlfix/commits/master
   :alt: GitHub last commit


.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/Nelson-Gon/urlfix.svg
   :target: https://GitHub.com/Nelson-Gon/urlfix/issues/
   :alt: GitHub issues


.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/issues-closed/Nelson-Gon/urlfix.svg
   :target: https://GitHub.com/Nelson-Gon/urlfix/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed
   :alt: GitHub issues-closed


``urlfix`` aims to find all outdated URLs in a given file and fix them. 

**Supported file formats**

``urlfix`` fixes URLs given a file of the following types:


* [x] MarkDown (.md)
* 
  [x] Plain Text files (.txt)

* 
  [ ] ReStructured Text (.rst)

* 
  [ ] PDF (.pdf)

* 
  [ ] Word (.docx)

* 
  [ ] ODF (.odf)

**Features List**


* 
  [x] Commandline and programmer-friendly modes. 

* 
  [x] Replace outdated URLs/links in a single file

* 
  [x] Replace outdated URLs/links in a directory

* 
  [x] Replace outdated URLs/links in the same file or in the same files in a directory i.e inplace.

* 
  [ ] Replace files in nested directories

**Installation**

The simplest way to install the latest release is as follows:

.. code-block:: shell

   pip install urlfix

To install the development version:

Open the Terminal/CMD/Git bash/shell and enter

.. code-block:: shell


   pip install git+https://github.com/Nelson-Gon/urlfix.git

   # or for the less stable dev version
   pip install git+https://github.com/Nelson-Gon/urlfix.git@dev

Otherwise:

.. code-block:: shell

   # clone the repo
   git clone git@github.com:Nelson-Gon/urlfix.git
   cd urlfix
   python3 setup.py install

**Sample usage**

**Script Mode**

To use at the commandline, please use:

.. code-block:: shell


   python main.py --mode "f" --verbose 1 --inplace 1 --input-file "myfile.md"

To get help:

.. code-block:: shell

   python main.py -h 

   #usage: main.py [-h] -m MODE -in INPUT_FILE [-o OUTPUT_FILE] -v {False,false,0,True,true,1} -i {False,false,0,True,true,1}
   #
   #optional arguments:
   #  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
   #  -m MODE, --mode MODE  Mode to use. One of f for file or d for directory
   #  -in INPUT_FILE, --input-file INPUT_FILE
   #                        Input file for which link updates are required.
   #  -o OUTPUT_FILE, --output-file OUTPUT_FILE
   #                        Output file to write to. Optional, only necessary if not replacing inplace
   #  -v {False,false,0,True,true,1}, --verbose {False,false,0,True,true,1}
   #                        String to control verbosity. Defaults to True.
   #  -i {False,false,0,True,true,1}, --inplace {False,false,0,True,true,1}
   #                        Should links be replaced inplace? This should be safe but to be sure, test with an output file first.

**Programmer-Friendly Mode**

.. code-block:: python


   from urlfix.urlfix import URLFix
   from urlfix.dirurlfix import DirURLFix

**Create an object of class URLFix**

.. code-block:: python


   urlfix_object = URLFix("testfiles/testurls.txt", output_file="replacement.txt")

**Replacing URLs**

After creating our object, we can replace outdated URLs as follows:

.. code-block:: python


   urlfix_object.replace_urls(verbose=1)

The above uses default arguments and will not replace a file inplace. This is a safety mechanism to ensure one does not
damage their files. 

Since we set ``verbose`` to ``True``\ , we get the following output:

.. code-block:: shell

   urlfix_object.replace_urls()
   Found https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/manymodelr in testurls.txt, now validating.. 
   Found https://cran.r-project.org/package=manymodelr in testurls.txt, now validating.. 
   https://cran.r-project.org/package=manymodelr replaced with https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/manymodelr/index.html 
   in replacement.txt
   Found https://tidyverse.org/lifecycle/#maturing in testurls.txt, now validating.. 
   https://tidyverse.org/lifecycle/#maturing replaced with https://lifecycle.r-lib.org/articles/stages.html in 
   replacement.txt
   2 URLs have changed of the 3 links found in testurls.txt
   2

To replace silently, simply set verbose to ``False`` (which is the default). 

.. code-block:: python

   urlfix_object.replace_urls()
   2 URLs have changed of the 3 links found in testurls.txt
   2

If there are URLs known to be valid, pass these to the ``correct_urls`` argument to save some time.

.. code-block:: python


   urlfix_object.replace_urls(correct_urls=[urls_here]) # Use a Sequence eg tuple, list, etc

**Replacing several files in a directory**

To replace several files in a directory, we can use ``DirURLFix`` as follows.


* Instantiate an object of class ``DirURLFix``

.. code-block:: python


   replace_in_dir = DirURLFix("path_to_dir")


* Call ``replace_urls``

.. code-block:: python


   replace_in_dir.replace_urls()

----

To report any issues, suggestions or improvement, please do so at `issues <https://github.com/Nelson-Gon/urlfix/issues>`_. 

If you would like to cite this work, please use:

Nelson Gonzabato (2021) urlfix: Check and Fix Outdated URLs https://github.com/Nelson-Gon/urlfix

**Thank you very much**. 

..

   “Before software can be reusable it first has to be usable.” – Ralph Johnson
